Residual-curvature analysis of prestack depth migrated
common image gathers (CIGs) is widely used for updating
the whole velocity model in areas of complex geology. The
velocity is estimated by maximizing the flatness of these
events in either the time domain or the depth domain. In
order to perform conventional reflection tomography, the
reflector positions are needed and are either guessed or
estimated. Therefore, the backprojection operator is often
incorrectly calculated because of the incorrectly estimated
reflector positions. This process may slow down the
convergence of inversion. Van Trier (1990) points out that,
instead of using reflectors in the depth domain as the
reference events, we may use the reference events in the
time domain. Based on the principle that ray tracing
(modeling) undoes migration, these reference events in the
time domain are the true events and don¡¯t change with
velocity variations. Hence if we can convert the depth
deviations into adequate time deviations, there is no need to
use reflector positions in the inversion.

Migration velocity analysis basically uses the flatness of
the CIG as a criterion for velocity quality. If the migration
velocity model is not correct, the same reflector will appear
at different depth positions for different constant-offset
sections. In principle, one needs to determine the
differences between the true and migrated depths of the
reflector at each offset and surface location, and convert
these depth perturbations into velocity perturbations in the
inversion method.
To obtain the depth deviation, most tomographic methods
need reflector positions for finding the depth perturbation.
Unfortunately, the true position of a reflector is not known,
so depth perturbations from it can not be accurately
determined. To solve this problem, one may try to invert
for an additional unknown apart from velocity, namely the
depths of interfaces in the velocity model (Stork 1992). But
the velocity-depth ambiguity can lead to instabilities and
poor convergence in the optimization. Van Trier (1990)
chose not to parameterize both velocity and depth in the
optimization. Instead, he obtained the reflector depths from
the migrated data, and used them only in computing the
backprojection operator.

The reflector
perturbations are thus better determined in the time domain
than they are in the depth domains. Since the reference
events are the true seismic events and do not move as
velocity changes, calculating the backprojection operator
will focus only on the offset behavior of the events, which
provides the most detailed velocity variations.

The lack of flatness of an event across different offsets on a
depth migrated CIG indicates that the velocity is in error.


At each fixed surface location r , the depth perturbation
can be represented as


To summarize, the main procedure involves:
? First, a common-offset depth migration is performed,
and the locally coherent events should be picked, either
automatically or manually, for reflection points and dips.
? Second, choose a near-offset reflection point as a
reference point, and shoot the specular rays using offset
and azimuth of this reference section. This will give t0 .
? Third, for all other individual reflection points related to
the above reference point, we again perform specular ray
tracing, using the offset and azimuth of the reference
point, to mimic near-offset modeling. This will generate
the traveltime t0h , hence the traveltime deviation in
equation (2). We can also obtain the corresponding
derivatives, which are the operators B and C .
? Fourth, for the same reflection points, we perform a
specular ray tracing again, this time using the current
offset and azimuth of this reflection point instead of
those of the reference point. This process is used to
obtain the operator D .
? Fifth, compose the backprojection operator A
according to equation (4).
? Sixth, solve the linear system of equations.
¦¤z = ztrue ? zr , (1)
where ztrue is the depth of the true reflection point below
the surface location r, and zr is the corresponding migrated
depth for the reflector with the given surface location,
offset (and azimuth in 3D) and migration velocity. If the
true depth of the reflector is known, we can use it in the
inversion. But in practice, except near well locations, we
don¡¯t know the true location of the reflector. This makes
depth perturbations can not be accurately determined. Some
have suggested the use of a floating datum (Woodward et
al., 1998; Bednar, 1999) as a partial solution to this
problem. The idea behind floating datum is that since we
don¡¯t know the true reflector position, we can remove the
effect of reflector by subtracting the near-offset deviation
from the far-offset deviation.

follow Van Trier (1990) to give an alternative
solution. In his thesis, Van Trier suggests using a true zerooffset
reflection event as a reference, and modeling zerooffset
events for the migrated reflectors in each constantoffset
section. Since the modeled events in the zero-offset
section correspond to true zero-offset events, this approach
would seem to provide an ideal first step to a full solution
of the inverse problem. Unfortunately, however, we don¡¯t
have true zero-offset data. To make Van Trier¡¯s method
feasible, we need to use another, usually near-offset as the
reference event.

our method has more
useful velocity coverage and is more stable than floatingdatum
methods. The total number of iterations is 10
using a sparse matrix LSQR solver with dip-oriented
regularization.

Conclusions
Residual tomographic inversion is an effective tool for
estimation of velocity structure Proper formulation of the
method produces an accurate and rapidly converging
algorithm.
